#summary Unix-like OSs Specific Notes and Details

== Running the GUI ==

Provided that you are using a unix-like operating system (FreeBSD, Linux, Solaris, &c), you should be able to run the GUI source (msatCommandGui.py) with
{{{
python msatCommandGui.py
}}} 
*or* 
{{{
pythonw msatCommandGui.py
}}} 
depending on your python installation and environment.  However, there are several dependencies:

  * Python (2.4.3 and 2.4.4 known to work; 2.5.x status unknown)
  * [http://www.wxpython.org/ wxPython] (version 2.6.xx)
  * [http://biopython.org/wiki/Main_Page Biopython] (CVS versions after 2/26/07 should work)

Biopython may be checked out of anonymous CVS (password: cvs):
{{{
cvs -d:pserver:cvs@cvs.open-bio.org:/home/repository/biopython login
cvs -d:pserver:cvs@cvs.open-bio.org:/home/repository/biopython co biopython
}}}

If you don't want to fuss with the CVS version of Biopython (you still need the stable 1.42 version), you should checkout msatcommander from one of the tagged subversion directories (< version 0.4.5).  To checkout the code, you must have the subversion client installed.  Then:

{{{
svn checkout http://msatcommander.googlecode.com/svn/tags/msatcommand-GUI-0.4.4/ msatcommander-svn
}}}

Earlier tagged releases (< 0.4.5) use the Fasta module that is available in Biopython 1.42.  Newer versions make use of the SeqIO modules which are faster and *handle exceptions better* than the older Fasta modules.

Biopython should implement these new features with the 1.43 release.

== Command-line version ==

There is also a command-line version of msatcommander (msatCommand.py).  This is currently available from the trunk svn directory:

{{{
svn checkout http://msatcommander.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ msatcommander
}}}

The commandline code has been (mostly) updated to a version equivalent with the GUI versions.  You can only scan for 'All' microsatellite classes at the moment.  This will be fixed shortly.  You may run the code with:

{{{
python msatCommand.py -i infile.fsa -o outfile.csv -s All
}}}

As above, there are several dependencies:

  * Python (2.4.3 and 2.4.4 known to work; 2.5.x status unknown)
  * [http://biopython.org/wiki/Main_Page Biopython] (CVS versions after 2/26/07 should work) 

If you don't want to fuss with the CVS version of Biopython (you still need the stable 1.42 version), you should checkout msatcommander from the tagged 0.3.0 directory.  To checkout the code, you must have the subversion client installed.  Then:

{{{
svn checkout http://msatcommander.googlecode.com/svn/tags/msatcommand-release-0.3.0/ msatcommander-svn
}}}

The code is in the msatCommand.py file.












